# Switch Statement  

In using the switch statement the variable is compared against the list of values. This value is known as **case** and the variable keep on checking the value until it becomes the same.  

## Syntax 

```c++
switch(expression) {
   case constant-expression  :
      statement(s);
      break; //optional
   case constant-expression  :
      statement(s);
      break; //optional
  
   // multiple number of case statement is allowed 
   default : //Optional
      statement(s);
}
```  
### Explanation of code  

Expression: it should be an integral type or enumerated type. 
Each switch statement has multiple case statements followed by the value to be compared and colon(:).  
 
Constant-expression: The constant expression must be having the same data type as variable to be compared with and it must be literal or constant.  

Break: The break statement is used to terminate the switch statement if the case value matches the variable value. After the break statement is executed the entire flow of control comes out of the switch statement and goes to the next line after the switch statement.

Default: The default case can be inserted in a switch statement for the situation where no case is executed. Declaring the default case is optional.  

## Example
```c++
Live Demo
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
 
int main () {
  
   int marks = '10';

   switch(grade) {
      case '5' :
         cout << "You scored 5 marks" << endl; 
         break;
      case '7' :
      case '7' :
         cout << "You scored 7 marks" << endl;
         break;
      case 'D' :
         cout << "You scored 10 marks" << endl;
         break;
      default :
         cout << "You scored 0 marks" << endl;
   }
   cout << "Your marks is " << marks << endl;
 
   return 0;
}
```
### Explanation of code  

In the above code, the marks is the variable to be compared for executing the message. It is compared to every case statement and prints the block of code inside the case which is matched. If none of the cases is matched it will execute the default case.

## Output
```c
You scored 10 marks
Your marks is 10
```
