# for LOOP  

**for Loop** is as same as while loop where the block of code is executed more than one time but for loop is more efficient to work with if we know the specific number of times we want to run the loop.  
At the beginning of the loop we define the condition which allows the loop to run for a limited number of time and then terminates automatically.  

## Syntax  
```c++
for ( init; condition; increment ) {
   statement(s);
}
```  

### Explanation of code  

As shown for we do not need any condition statement for **for loop**.
Let us understand the conditional parameter of the code:
* init: It shows the initial value for the beginning of the loop. Init step is executed first and only one time.  

* condition: The condition shows the number of times we want to run the code. If the condition becomes false then the loop will not be executed and the flow of control jumps to the next statement after the loop.   

* Increment:  The flow of control again jumps to the initial point of the loop for incrementing the value of the variable.  

Also, any of the above conditions can be left blank as necessary but after following the semi-colon before and after.  

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
 
int main () {
   // for loop execution
   for( int a = 5; a < 10; a = a + 1 ) {
      cout << "value of a: " << a << endl;
   }
 
   return 0;
}
```  

### Explanation of code  

In the above code, we initialize the value of variable 'a' as 5 in the first parameter of for loop. The condition here states that the loop should be executed until the value of 'a<10'. And the last condition increments the variable until the condition is false.  

## Output   
```c
value of a: 5
value of a: 6
value of a: 7
value of a: 8
value of a: 9
```  

# INFINITE LOOP 

The loop becomes an infinite loop if the condition is always true. For loop is mostly used for this kind of situation. If none of the three-parameter of for loop is mentioned than the loop converts into a never-ending loop.

## Example 

```c
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
 
int main () {
   for( ; ; ) {
      printf("This loop will run forever.\n");
   }

   return 0;
}
```  
You can use initialization and increment in the for loop instead of keeping empty. But it is more favorable to use none of the parameters.  
We can terminate the infinite loop by using **Ctrl+C**.