# Inheritance  

One of the most important concepts of OOP is **Inheritance**.  

Basically Inheritance helps us to define a class based on another class. Thus this provides the facilities to create and maintain the application.  

The class from which the properties are inherited is called **Base Class** and the class which inherits the property is called **Derived Class**.  

The Derived class has **all the properties** of the base class and also some additional features of its own.

For example, the Daughter class (derived) can be inherited from the Mother class (base).  

Here the inheritance implements the **is a** relationship. For example, pigeon **is a** bird. Similarly, crow **is a** bird.  

## Example  

```c++
class Mother
{
 public:
  Mother() {};
  void say() {
    cout << "Hey";
  } 
};

class Daughter 
{
 public: 
  Daughter() {};
};
```
Here in the above code, we create a class "Mother" which the function to print "Hey" and a class "Daughter" which access specifier has "public".  

Now we will inherit the "Mother" class in the "Daughter" class.  

```c++
class Daughter: public Mother
{
 public: 
  Daughter() {};
};
```
The above syntax shows the inheritance of mother class into daughter class. The **:(colon)** is for the inheritance functionality.  
Here the "public" access specifier states that all the members that are public in the base class are public in the derived class.  

As the public member of the base class is a public member of a derived class therefore we can call the "say()" function of "Mother" class in the "Daughter" class by creating an object in the "Daughter" class. 

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class Mother
{
 public:
  Mother() {};
  void say() {
   cout << "Hey";
  }
};

class Daughter: public Mother
{
 public:
  Daughter() {};
};

int main() {
  Daughter d;
  d.say();
}
```  
## Output  

```c++
Hey
```

The derived class inherits all the base class method with all the following exception:  

* Constructor, Destructor
* The friend functions
* Overloaded Operator   

Also, the derived class can be derived from multiple base classes in **comma-separated** list.  

## Type of Inheritance  

There are 3 types of inheritance from base class to derived class according to the **access specifiers**. 

Note that private and protected are hardly used in inheritance but the public is mostly used in it.  

1. Public Inheritance: Public members of the base class become public members of the derived class and can be accessed easily in the derived class.  

2. Protected Inheritance: A protected member of the base class becomes a protected member of the derived class and can be accessed easily in the derived class.  
While inheriting from the base class, the public and protected member of base class becomes a protected member of the derived class 

3. Private Inheritance: Private members of the base class cannot be directly accessed in the derived class but can be accessed using public and protected classes.  
While inheriting from the base class, the public and protected member of base class become a private member of the derived class. 




