# Polymorphism   

The basic meaning of the word "Polymorphism" is **having many forms**.  
Generally, polymorphism occurs when there is a hierarchy of class-related by inheritance.  

In C++, polymorphism means that calling the member function of a class will cause a different execution depending on the type of the object that invokes the function.  

So in short, polymorphism means that a single function can have different implementations. 

## Example  

```c++
class Fruit {
 protected: 
  string color;
 public:
  void setcolor(string a){
   color = 'a';
  }
};
```  
### Explanation of code  

Here in the above code, we create a "Fruit" Class. Here we can say that all the fruits have the same category that is the fruit, but still, they have different characteristics.  
So here Polymorphism allows calling the same function on different objects, but results are different.  

Here our "Fruit" class has a public method called "setcolor", which sets the protected "color" member variable.

Now extending the code we create two classes that are inherited from the "Fruit" class.  

```c++
class Orange: public Fruit {
 public:
  void col() {
   cout << "Orange! - "<<color<<endl;
  }
};

class Apple: public Fruit {
 public:
  void col() {
   cout << "Apple! - "<<color<<endl;
  }
};
```
### Explanation of code

Here in the above code, we create classes for two different types of fruits class, "Orange" and "Apple". Both of these new classes inherit from the "Fruit" class, so each has a "color". At the same time, each has a specific "col" function.  

As we can see that their individual "col" function differs.
Now we create Orange and Apple Object in main() function

```c++
int main() {   
 Orange o;
 Apple a;  
}
```
"Orange" and "Apple" inherit from "Fruit", so all "Orange" and "Apple" objects are "Fruit" objects. Therefore we can do the following:

```c++
Fruit *f1 = &o;
Fruit *f2 = &a;
```
Now we can all the respective functions accordingly:  

```c++
int main() {
  Orange o;
  Apple a;
  Fruit *f1 = &o;
  Fruit *f2 = &a;

 f1->setcolor(orange);
 f2->setcolor(red);

 n.col();
 m.col();
}
```
## Output 

```c++
Orange! - orange
Apple! - red
```
Note that we can achieve the same result by calling the function directly on an object but it is a conventional and easier way to use pointers.


