# Function Template  

Templates are the generic programming, which helps writing code such that it is **independent of any particular type**.  
In short, templates are the formula to create the generic class or function.  

It becomes easier to write, execute, and maintain the programs using function and classes.  

But still, in C/C++, there are some limitations to execute the class and function in certain cases that you specify types for all of your parameters.  

For example, we create a program like below to calculate the sum of two numbers:

```c++
int sum(int x, int y)
{
    return x+y;
}
```
Now if we want to write the same sum function but with the data type "double", we have to create the new function again.  

Instead, we can use the **function templates**.  
Using function template the necessity of specifying the type of each parameter and we can use placeholder type called **template type parameter**.  

The templates can be for both function and class. The general form of the template function is shown below:

## Syntax  

```c++
template <class type> ret-type func-name(parameter list) {
   // function body
} 
```
Here we use the template type **T** which is the generic data type.   

Now we can use our generic data type in the function:

```c++
template <class T>
T sum(T x, T y) {
  return x+y;
}

int main () {
    int a=5, b=10;
    cout << sum(a, b) << endl;
}

```
The function returns the value of generic data type, taking two parameters of the same "T" type.  Here the function gives the same output as our "int" value function.  

## Output  

```c++
15
```

The same function can be used for double data type as follow:

```c++
template <class T>
T sum(T x, T y) {
  return x+y;
}

int main () {
  double a=5.5, b=10.2;
  cout << sum(a, b) << endl;
}
```
## Output  

```c++
15.7
```
Here the **compiler automatically calls the function** of a similar kind.  

The template function is most useful because it saves a lot of time and reduce overwriting of code.  
Enhanced safety is another advantage using a template as it is not necessary to manually copy function and change it.  

