# Exceptions  

The problem that arises during program execution is called **Exceptions**.  
C++ exceptions are the response to exceptional circumstances while program execution such as division by zero.  

Exception handling provides a way to transfer the flow of control of the program **from one point to another**.  
In C/C++, the exception handling is done by three keywords:  

1. **try**: A try block help to recognize the block of code for which the exception should be activated. It is further followed by one or more catch blocks.  

2. **catch**: The catch keyword indicates the catching of an exception with at the place in the program where you want to handle the problem.  

3. **throw**: A program throw an exception when the problem is identified.  

Suppose a certain block of code will raise an exception, and the exception handling catches an exception.  
Therefore a **try/catch block** is placed around the block of code that might generate the exception.  

## Syntax  

```c++
try {
   // protected code
} catch( ExceptionName e1 ) {
   // catch block
} catch( ExceptionName e2 ) {
   // catch block
} catch( ExceptionName eN ) {
   // catch block
}
```
We can use the **multiple catch statement** in case different types of exceptions are generated by try block in different cases.  

## Throwing Exception  

we can throw exception anywhere in the block of code using **throw statement**.  The operand of the throw statement determines an exception type.  

## Example  

```c++
double division(int x, int y) {
   if( y == 0 ) {
      throw "Division by zero condition!";
   }
   return (x/y);
}
```
In the above example, we take the division by zero exception.  

## Catching Exception  

The catch block which follows the try block catches an exception for the code.  
We specify the type of exception we need to catch and the exception declaration in parenthesis.  

## Example  

```c++
try {
   // protected code
} catch( ExceptionName e ) {
  // code to handle exception
}
```
If we want to handle all type of exception in the catch block, the **ellipsis(....)** is put between the parenthesis of after catch keyword.  

```c++
try {
   // protected code
} catch(...) {
  // code to handle all exception
}
```
## Example  

```c++
try {
  int fatherAge = 29;
  int daughterAge = 30;
  if (daughterAge > fatherAge) {
   throw 104;
  }
} 
catch (int a) {
  cout<<"Wrong age values - Error "<<a;
}
```
Here in the above code, the try blocks throw an exception and catch block handles it. 


