# Variables  

Variable is nothing but the names given to the storage area that our program requires.  
Each variable has its own data type specifying the type of data to be stored in it which further decides the amount of space required by that variable in memory. 

A variable declaration assure the compiler that there exists a variable with the specific type and name so the compiler can proceed for further compilation without requiring the detail about the variable.  

Name of variable can start with any Upper or Lower case alphabet and underscore. It is composed of any letter, digit or underscore further. Special characters are not allowed in naming variables.  
Also variables name in C/C++ programming is case-sensitive.  

A variable declaration specifies a data type and contains a list of one or more variables of that type. For example:

```c++
type variable_list;
```
Here the **type** defines the data type of the variable and **variable_list** defines the number of variable to be created of that type. The variable list can be separated by commas(,).

## Example :
```c++
int i,j,k;
char c,a;
float f,fl;
```
If we want to assign some value to the variable then it can be initialized while declaring the variable.  
```c++
type variable_list = value;
```

## Example:
```c++
int i=3, j=5;
char c='a', ch='x';
```
If we do not initialize the variable while declaring it than the value of the variable is NULL(no value) and it is consider to be static variable. Therefore while programming we can initialize it's value according to our need.  

Following example explains how the variables are declared at the beginning of the programming and initialized further in the program.  
```c++
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
    //declaring the variable 
    int a,b;
    int c;
    //initializing the value
    a = 2;
    b = 3;

    c = a + b;
    printf("value of c : %d", c);

    return 0;
}
```  
While running this program we will get the following output:
```
value of c : 5
```  
## Lvalue and Rvalue  

* Lvalue: Expression referring to **memory location** is called Lvalue.  
Lvalue appear at right or left hand side of assignment operator.

* Rvalue: Expression referring to **data** stored at the address of some memory location is called Rvalue. A Rvalue does not have any expression to which it is assigned. Therefore may appear on right hand side of assignment operator but not on left hand side of assignment operator.  
For Example:  
```c++
int a = 3; //valid statement
3 = 4;    //invalid statement
``` 
In above example variables are lvalue. Therefore they are on left side of assignment operator. Numeric or the data are rvalue. Therefore they are shown on the right side of the assignment operator.  
The second line shows the invalid code and would generate error while compilation.  


