# Hello World ()  

In this tutorial we will go through the basic syntax of C and C++ programming language by the standard example code of printing hello world.

## Syntax for C language 

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  printf("Hello, World!\n");
  return 0;
}
```

## Syntax for C++ language  

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

// main() is where program execution begins.
int main() {
   cout << "Hello World"; // prints Hello World
   return 0;
}
```
Now let us understand the above code: 

The **#include** line is known as header file. The function used to print the line comes from the stdio library. Therefore it is necessary to add the header file in the beginning of the code.  

In C++ code **using namespace std** tells the compiler to use standrad libraray. Also C++ compiler ignores the blank spaces.

Then **int main()** is the entry point of the program.
Curly brackets show the beginning and end of the function. It can also be called as body of the function. 
Every program of C and C++ program starts with **main()** irrespective of what the program does.

The **printf** and **cout** function is used to generate the output.
In C language the message to be displayed is to be written in the paranthesis **()** after printf funtion.   
In C++ language the message to be displayed is to be written after the insertion operator **<<** .  
The semicolon **(;)** is used to show the termination of the statement in the program.  

The **return 0** statement terminates the main() function and returns 0 (nothing) when the function is called. The number 0 generally means that our program has successfully executed.  

Now let us understand some of the tokens of the C and C++ programming language.  
The tokens consist of Identifiers, Keywords, Constants and Comments out of which we will study some in this tutorial and some in coming tutorial.

## Indentifiers 

In C and C++ language identifiers are the names used to identify a function, user-defiened function or any variable.  
An identifier starts from 'A' to 'Z' or 'a' to 'z' or an underscore (_) or any number from 0-9 and underscored followed by zero.  
The identifiers does not allow the special characters like $, &, @, #, etc. Also the identifers are **case sensitive**. Therefore Kip and kip are different identifiers. 

## Keywords  

Keywords are the reserved words that cannot be used as names of any variable or constants. Some of keywords are as shown below:

auto, else, break, long, switch, register, typedef, case, char, int, float, byte, short, unsigned, const, for, while, do, if, goto, static, contiune, void, struct, union, sizeof, double, etc.








