# **What is C/C++** 

**C/C++ programming** is general purpose programming language which is mainly used to create base of many other programming language.  
Also C language us mainly use in creating the source code of many other programming language and their compiler and interpreter.  
C++ programming language is largely derived from C language with some additional concept. Additional features like _Object Oriented Programming_ and generic programming capabilities have been added on top of C language.  

Some of the advantages of C/C++ programming language are :

* East to learn
* Structured Language 
* It produces efficient programs
* It can handle low and high level activities 
* It can be compiled on variety of platforms 

## Application of C/C++ language

C/C++ language was initially used for system development and in source code of operating system.  
Some other examples of C/C++ applications are:  

* Print Spooler 
* Network Drivers 
* Database 
* Application of software development
* Games development 
* Embedded system

# Environment Setup

If you are willing to set the environment of C++ than you need to have the following software installed in your computer:

### Text Editor 

This will help you to write the code and text. For Example: Windows Notepad, Epsilon, Brief etc.  
Name and version depends on the different operating system. For Example : Notepad on windows and vim or vi can be on windows and Unix/Linux.  
The source code created in windows and unix are called source files and for C/C++ language they are typically be known by extension **.c**, **.cpp**, **.cp**.  

### C/C++ compiler  

This is actual C/C++ compiler used to compile the source code into final executable program.   
Most Frequent and most used C/C++ compiler available is **GNU C/C++ compiler** , otherwise you can have any other compiler.  

#### Installing GNU C/C++ compiler

* Unix/Linux installation  
If you have Unix/Linux in your computer than check whether you have Compiler install by following command:
```
$ g++ -v
```
If you have it than following message should be printed:
```
Using built-in specs.
Target: i386-redhat-linux
Configured with: ../configure --prefix=/usr .......
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.1.2 20080704 (Red Hat 4.1.2-46)
```
If You have not install it than install it by the instruction at (https://gcc.gnu.org/install/)  

* Mac OS X Installation  
If you are using Mac OS, the easiest way to install GNU compiler is by downloading Xcode development environment from Apple's offcial website. 

* Windows Installation  
To install GCC in windows go to (http://www.mingw.org/) and download MinGW. While installing MinGW, you must install gcc-core, gcc-g++, binutils, and the MinGW runtime.  
When the installation is complete use the GNu tools from windows command line. 