# Array  

In C/C++, Array is generally used to store more than one value in the variable. **Array** is the collection of data with the same data type.  
Array stored the fixed-size collection of elements.  
For example, if we want to store 50 numbers in the program, it is better to create an array of size 50 and store all the value rather than storing each value in a different variable which is very tedious and hard work.  

Remember that the values in the array are stored using its index value. The lower index specifies the lower memory location and a higher index specifies a high memory location. Also the array index **always starts with zero (0)**.  

## Syntax  
To declare the array we need to specify the data type of the value to be store and the number of value to be store as shown below:  

```c++
datatype arrayName [arraySize];
```  
Here the data type is any valid C/C++ data type and the array size must be any integral number greater than zero.  

## For Example  
```c++
int no[15];
```
The above syntax shows the declaration of an array of size 15 storing the integer value.  

## Initialization of Array  

In C++ array element are initialized one by one as follow:

```c++
int number[5] = {3, 2, 6, 7, 1}
```
Here the elements inside the {} are the array elements of integer type and cannot be more than the array size inside []. The pictorial presentation of the array will be as following:  

|        | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 |
|:------:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| number | 3 | 2 | 6 | 7 | 1 |  

## Accessing the array elements

The array element can be accessed by **indexing the array name**. We need to mention the index of the element we want to access inside the "[]" beside the array name. 

## For Example 

```c++
int a = number[2]
```
The above statement will take the 3rd element from the array and assign it to the variable 'a'. 

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
    int numbers[5] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};

    cout << "\nThe numbers are: ";

    for (int i = 0; i < 5; ++i) {
        cout << numbers[i] << "  ";
    }

    return 0;
}
```  

### Explanation of code  

In the above example, the array named 'number' takes 5 elements, and all the elements are initialized and then printed using for loop.  

## Output 
```
The number are:
1 2 3 4 5
```


