# Abstraction  

**Data Abstraction** is the process of hiding the information from the outer world and only provide the data needed hiding the rest of the details. It is basically depended on the concept of **separation of interface and implementation**.  

For example, consider the laptop. We can write, read, store data, watch movies and songs, but we do not know the internal structure of it such as how it stores data and the construction inside it.   
So we can do our work on a laptop even without knowing the internal structure of it.   

High level of **Data Abstraction** is provided in C++ programming.  It provides the public method with functionality to the outer world to play and manipulate the changes. In C++ we use our own abstract data types. 

## Access Specifiers Abstraction  

In C++ as studied, we can use one or more access labels to define the class abstraction. There can be zero or multiple access labels:  

* The member is defined with public specifier are accessible from the outside of the class.  
* The member is defined with private specifier are only accessible to code of that class. 

There is no limit to the usage of access specifiers. The specified access is effective until the next specifiers or the closing brackets of the class body.  

By defining the class by private the author is free to make the changes in the data. If the implementation changes, only the class code is examined to see what affect the change.  

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class Add {
   public:
      // constructor
      Add(int i = 0) {
         total = i;
      }
      
      // interface to outside world
      void addNum(int no) {
         total += no;
      }
      
      // interface to outside world
      int printTotal() {
         return total;
      };
      
   private:
      // hidden data from outside world
      int total;
};

int main() {
   Add a;
   
   a.addNum(1);
   a.addNum(2);
   a.addNum(3);

   cout << "Total " << a.printTotal() <<endl;
   return 0;
}
```
### Explanation of code  

Here in the above code, we create a class "Add". Then creating the method "addNum" which adds the passed number to the total and the creating the method which prints the total. So the class adds the numbers and returns the sum of it.  

The total amount is kept in the private section which cannot be accessed by everyone except the author. The other methods are declared in the public section hence can be accessed and used by everyone.  

We can see the constructor declaration after the public specifier. So constructor is the **special member** of the class that is **executed when the new object is created**. We will study it in detail in the next tutorial. 

## Output

```c++
6 
```
As we discussed, the abstraction separates the interface and implementation. So while creating the program we need to make sure to keep interface different than the implementation part so the change in one will not affect the other. 
