# What is Class?  

Classes are the **focal point** of OOP and objects are created by Classes.  
The class can be defined as the description or the definition of the object.  
The class describes what the object will be but is totally separated from the object itself.  

Also, a single class is used to describe multiple objects.   
For example, we create a blueprint before constructing the house. Similarly, the same blueprint can be used for different houses to be built.  

The programming works in the flow where first the class is defined which further describes the object. Each class has a name, and its own attribute and behavior.  

In programming **type** is used to refer the classes as an object that can be of a particular type. 

**Method** is another term used in classes. Methods are the functions in the classes. They have a specific block of code that can be called and execute a certain task and return the values.  

## Example  

If we are creating the banking program than the class will have following attributes:
1. name: Account  
2. attribute: accNo, balance, dateOfOpen  
3. behavior: open(), close(), deposit()  

As we discussed the class describes the behavior and attribute of the object but it does not specify what is the actual data.  
Each object is called an **instance** of a class and the process of creating the object is called **instantiation**.  

## Syntax  

```c++
class Account {

};

```
The class is declared by the keyword **class** followed by the class name and the body of the class inside the curly brackets.  
It is compulsory to put the semi-colon at the end of the class definition.  
Here we create a class named Account. 

All the **attribute**, **behavior**, and **access specifiers** (the access restriction to class members that is specified with the keywords like public, private or protected) for the members of the class is defined inside the curly brackets.   

A member that is defined using the **public** keyword can be accessed from outside the class, as long as it's anywhere within the class object.  
We can also declare the class **private** and **protected**.  

## Example  

```c++
class Account {
  public:
    void printHi() {
      cout << "Hi" << endl;
    }
};
```  
Here the class with one public method is created which prints "Hi".  

Now the instantiate object in "Account" class just like we declare variable but the difference will be that the object will be of "Account" type.  

```c++
void main() 
{
  Account test;
  test.printHi();
}
```

Here the **.(dot)** operator is used to call and access the method of the object. We have to declare class before using it just like in functions.  





