# What is Object?

**Object Oriented Programming** (OOP) is a programming that is used to make thinking about programming closer to thinking about the real world.  

In OOP, each program has its own independent unit called **Object**. 

The object follows the three-dimension describing any object in OOP:
1. Identity
2. Attribute  
3. Behavior  

Every Object has its **own unique independent identity**. For example, a pencil is an object, also an apple. Now both pencil and apple have their own unique identity. It can be possible to have two pencils of a similar kind, but still, they have different identities.  

An object might contain another object in it.   
Objects have a characteristic that can describe them. This characteristic is called **Attribute**.  For example, a bike can be white or black. A mug can be full or empty. Multiple Attribute to any object is possible.  
Attribute best describe the **current state** of an object. Also, the object's state is totally independent of its type.   
 
Each Object in OOP behaves in its own way just like in the real world. For example, a bike moves, phone rings and so on. The Object behavior is specific of its own kind. The behavior of an object describes **what they can do**.
 
In C++ programming Object does not describe any physical item. But instead, it describes the programming object like data, a bank account, etc. A bank account is not something that we can touch or have physically, but it has its own identity, attribute and behavior.  



