# The **FRIEND** Keyword  

As we know that the member of the private class can not be accessed from outside of the class.  
But some **non-member** function of the class can be declared as **friend**
which helps them to access outside the class also.  

This can be done by the declaration of this external function inside the class, and preceding it with the keyword friend.   

## Example  

```c++
class MyClass {
 public:
  MyClass() {
   Var = 0;
  }
 private:
  int Var;
    
  friend void someFunc(MyClass &obj);
};

```
Here in the above code,  "someFunc()", which is not a member function of the class "MyClass", is a friend of "MyClass" and can access its private members.

Remember that while passing an object to the function we have to pass it by reference, using **&** operator.  

It takes an object of type "MyClass" as a parameter and is able to access the private members of that object.

```c++
class MyClass {
 public:
  MyClass() {
   Var = 0;
  }
 private:
  int Var;
    
 friend void someFunc(MyClass &obj);
};

void someFunc(MyClass &obj) {
  obj.Var = 4;
  cout << obj.Var;
}
```
Here the "someFunc()" changes the private member of the class and prints it.  

The class has to declare the function as **friend** in its definition in order to make its member accessible.  
Without the class "giving away" its friendship to that function, you cannot "make" a function a friend of to a class

Now we can create the object in main() and call the "someFunc()" function.  

```c++
int main() {
  MyClass obj;
  someFunc(obj);
}

```
## Output

```c++
4
```

The main use of **friend** functions are operations that are conducted between two different classes accessing private members of both.  

You can use the **friend** function across any number of classes. Also like friend function, we can declare **friend class** in order to access the private member of the other class.  