# Encapsulation  

The word "Encapsulation" means the idea of **surrounding** an entity, not just keeping what's inside but also protecting it.  

In OOP encapsulation means combining the attribute and behavior of the class along with restricting the access of the inner working of a class.  

In short here the important thing is that the object only reveals whatever is mainly required by the application to run and all else is kept hidden.  

For example, if we want to take the "Account" class into consideration than we do not want the user to change the "balance" of the account without going through the process of "deposit()" and "withdraw()" behaviors.   

Therefore we should **hide** that attribute and apply the access specifiers so it is only visible to the object. So by this, the "balance" of the account cannot be changed directly from outside of the object without accessing these methods.  

The closing of the inner working zone of the object without the pieces we want to make public is also called **black boxing**.  

Therefore the benefits of Encapsulation are:

1. **Control** the process of data access and modification
2. Make the **code flexible** and easy to change according to requirements
3. The **change** in one part of code will not affect the other 

## Access Specifiers  

Access specifiers help to set the level to access the members of the class.  
There are three access specifiers:

1. public
2. private
3. protected  

A **public** member is accessible from outside of the class and anywhere in the scope of the class.  

### Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
using namespace std;

class myClass {
  public:
    string name;
};

int main() {
  myClass myObj;
  myObj.name = "Tim";
  cout << myObj.name;
  return 0;
}
```
Here the name attribute is public. Hence it can be used from outside of the code.  

Access Modifiers are needed to declare once than multiple members can follow a single modifier. Remember to put the **colon** at the end of declaring access modifiers.  

## Output  

```c++
Tim
```  

A **private** member cannot be viewed or accessed outside of the class. It can be only accessed inside the class.  
A **public** member function can be used to access the **private** members.

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
using namespace std;

class myClass {
  public:
    void setName(string x) {
      name = x;
    }
  private:
    string name;
};

int main() {
  myClass myObj;
  myObj.setName("John");

  return 0;
}
```
Here the "name" becomes the private attribute and cannot be accessed from outside. The public method **setName()** is used to get the "name" attribute.  

We can also add another public method to get the "name" attribute.  

```c++
class myClass {
  public:
    void setName(string x) {
      name = x;
    }
    string getName() {
      return name;
    }
  private:
    string name;
};

```
**getName()** returns the name of the private attribute.  

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
using namespace std;

class myClass {
  public:
    void setName(string x) {
      name = x;
    }
    string getName() {
      return name;
    }
  private:
    string name;
};

int main() {
  myClass myObj;
  myObj.setName("John");
  cout << myObj.getName();

  return 0;
}

```
Here in the above code, we use encapsulation to hide the "name" attribute from outside the class. They provided the access to the public method. Hence class can read the data only from these methods.
