# Unions  

The unions store different data types in **same memory location**.  

The unions are the same as structure members with the difference that unions variable store all the data type at **one location and only one member can occupy the memory location at a time**.   

A union declaration uses the **union** keyword, a union tag, and curly brackets { } with a list of members. Also, the unions store all the basic data types including arrays, pointers, and functions.  

## Example  

```c++
union val {
  int num;
  float no;
  char str[20];
};
```  
After the declaration of unions, we declare the union variable. 

```c++
union val u1;
union val u2;
```
Unions are used for **memory management**. The largest member of the union determines the size of the memory to share and then all members use these memory locations. 

Similar to structure, **.(dot)** operator between the variable name and member name is used to access the members of the union.  
The union memory location will be performed for that member when the assignment is performed until another member assignment is performed.  
It Shows the **unexpected result** while trying to access the members of the union that isn't occupying memory location.       

## Example  

```c++
union val {
  int num;
  float no;
  char str[20]; 
};
  
union val test;

test.num = 123;
test.no = 98.76;
strcpy(test.str, "hello");

printf("%d\n", test.num);
printf("%f\n", test.no);
printf("%s\n", test.str);
```
### Explanation of code  

Here in the above code, the union "val" and then print the values of the variables created. The "strcpy" is the string method used to copy the string in the other string variable.  

## Structure with Union  

Unions are used inside the structure as the structure has a member to keep track of which union member stores the value. 

```c++
typedef struct {
  char subject[20];
  int publish_year;
  int code; 
  union {
    int chapters;
    char chapter_name[20]; 
  } index;
} book;

book b1;
strcpy(b1.subject, "c++");
b1.publish_year = 2007;
b1.code = 01746;
car1.code.chapters = 4;   
```
### Explanation of code  

Here in the above code, a struct book either used the "chapters" or "chapter_name" but not both.  
Note that the union name is required at the **end** of the union declaration inside the structure. Also, the .(dot) operator is used twice to access the union member inside the structure.  

## Pointers to Unions 

A pointer to union points to memory location allocated to the union. The union pointer declaration is done by the union keyword and union tag along with * and a pointer name

## Example  

```c++
union val {
  int num;
  float no;
  char str[20]; 
};

union val info;
union val *ptr = NULL;
ptr = &info;
ptr->num = 10;
printf("info.num is %d", info.num); 

```
We can use the **-> operator** is used to union members through pointers.  

```c++
(*ptr).int_num is similar to ptr->int_num.
```
## Unions as Function Parameter  

A function can have union parameters that accept arguments **by value**. To change the function's actual value in the union variable, **pointer parameter** is used.  

## Example  

```c++
union id {
  int num;
  char name[20]; 
};

void set_id(union id *item) {
  item->num = 4;
}

void show_id(union id item) {
  printf("ID is %d", item.num);
} 
```  
## Output  

```c++
ID is 4
```
