# Structure  

The structure is the **user-defined data type** that group the variables of the different data types.  

The syntax of the structure includes the **struct** keyword, Structure tag for referring the structure, and the curly brackets including the list of the variable declaration.  
This variable declaration is called members of the structure.  

## Example  

```c++
struct sheet {
  int no;
  char name[40];
  float marks; 
}; 
```  

Here the struct is defined by the keyword **struct** and the name sheet. The members of the structure can include as many as struct we want to add and with the all basic data type including strings, arrays, pointers and also the other structures.  

It is important to remember the **semi-colon at the end of struct declaration**.  

## Example  

```c++
struct student {
  int id;
  int grade;
  char name[40];
};

/* declare two variables */
struct student s1;
struct student s2; 
```  

### Explanation of code  

In the above code, the statements declare a structure data type and then use the student struct to declare variables s1 and s2.  

A struct variable is stored in a contiguous memory block. The **sizeof** operator is used to get the number of bytes needed for a struct.  

## Declaration using Structure  

The struct variable can be initialized by listing initial value in order inside curly brackets.  

```c++
struct student s1 = {123, 9, "Jin"};
struct student s2 = {222, 10, "Tom"};
```
You can use named member initialization to initialize corresponding members.

```c++
struct student s1 
= { .grade = 9, .id = 123, .name = "Jin"}; 
```  
## Accessing structure members

We can access the members of the struct variable using **. (dot operator)** between the member name and variable name.  

## Example  

```c++
s1.id = 19;
```  
Also, we can assign one struct to another struct.  

```c++

struct student s1 = {123, 9, "Jin"};
struct student s2;
//....
s2 = s1; 
```

Let us understand the entire example of structure.  

```c++
struct human {
  int age;
  char name[40];
};

 
struct human h1 = {19, "John"}; 
h1.age += 2;
```
In the above code, we increase the age of the h1 by 2.  

## Using Typedef 

The **typedef** keyword creates a type definition that simplifies code and makes a program easier to read.  
**typedef** is more often used with structure as it helps to eliminate the use of struct keyword while declaring the variables.  

## Example  

```c++
typedef struct {
  int id;
  char name[40];
  float grade; 
} marks;

marks m1;
marks m2; 
```
Here in the above code, the keyword struct is not required while variable declaration.  

## Nested Structure  

The member of the structure can also contain other structures in it.  

```c++
typedef struct {
  int a;
  int b;
} point;

typedef struct {
  float r;
  point center;
} circle; 
```
Here in the above code, the member "point" of the first struct is again used in another struct with variable "circle".  

As we know the curly brackets are used to initialize the members. And .(dot) operator is used twice to access the members of members of structure as given belwo:  

```c++
circle c = {3.5, {2, 4}};
printf("%3.1f %d,%d", c.radius, c.center.x, c.center.y);
```

## Pointers to Structures  

Just like we use pointers to variables, similarly, pointers to the structure can also be used.  

```c++
struct myStruct *a; //defines a pointer to the myStruct structure.

a = &b;  //stores the address of the structure variable b in the pointer a.

a -> c;  //accesses the value of the structure member c.

```
The **-> operator** allows accessing members of the structure through the pointer.  

## Example  

```c++
struct Point {
  int x;
  int y;
} p1;

struct Point *ptr = &p1;
ptr->x = 3;
ptr->y = 4;
```

## Structure as Function Parameter  

A function can have structure parameters that accept arguments **by value**.  To change the function's actual value in struct variable, **pointer parameter** is used.  

## Example

```c++
#include<stdio.h>

struct student
{
    char name[20];
    int id;
    int marks;
};
 
void prints(char name[], int id, int marks); //function declaration
 
int main()
{
    struct student stu = {"Tim", 111, 78};
    prints(stu.name, stu.id, stu.marks);  //function calling
    return 0;
}
 
void prints(char name[], int id, int marks)  //function definition 
{
    printf("Name: %s\n", name);
    printf("Id: %d\n", id);
    printf("Marks: %d\n", marks);
    printf("\n");
}
```  
### Explanation of code

In the above code, the structure student is created with the student name, id, and marks. The "prints" function is declared which prints the details of the students. 

## Output  

```c++
Name: Tim
Roll no: 111
Marks: 78
```