# POINTERS  

In the computer system, the input and output value of the program is stored in the RAM of the system.  

Therefore the values at the **RAM locations are accessed and numbered by the set of lines that select a location as a binary number because the system only understands the binary number system**. This set of lines is called System Address Bus or **Memory Locations**.  

Every variable is a memory location storing the value in the system. Every memory location has its own address defined which can be accessed using an ampersand (&) which denotes the address in memory.  

## Example  
```c++
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;
int main () {
   int  var1;
  
   cout << "Address of var1 variable: ";
   cout << &var1 << endl;

   
   return 0;
}
```  
### Explanation of code  

In the above code, the int variable is declared in the memory location and the memory address of the variable is printed.  

## Output 
```c++
Address of var1 variable: 0xbfebd5c0  
```  
**A Pointer is the variable storing the address location of another variable as its value**.  
Pointers make the programming easy to perform. The task like dynamic memory location cannot be performed without pointers.  
We need to declare variables and constant as pointers before working with them.   

## Syntax 

```c++
datatype *variable;
```
Here data type can be any C++ data type and the variable is the name of the pointer variable. Here the asterisk is used to define the variable as a pointer.  
Following is the declaration of variable declaration as pointers.
```c++
int    *ip;    // integer pointer
float  *fp;    // float pointer
```
As the pointers store the address location of another variable therefore the data type of all pointers is the same i.e **long hexadecimal number**. The only difference between the pointers of a different data type is the data type of the variable it is pointing to.  

## Using Pointers  

Following task is performed with the pointers:  

* Defining the pointers.
* Assigning the address of the variable to the pointer.
* Accessing the value of the variable using a pointer variable.   

## Example  

```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main () {
   int  no = 5;   // variable declaration.
   int  *i;        // pointer variable declaration

   ip = &no;       // storing address of variable in pointer variable

   cout << "Value of no variable: ";
   cout << no << endl;

   // print the address stored in i pointer variable
   cout << "Address stored in i variable: ";
   cout << i << endl;

   // access the value of no variable at the address available in pointer
   cout << "Value of *i variable: ";
   cout << *i << endl;

   return 0;
}
```
### Explanation of code  

In the above code, we declare a variable 'no' holding value '5' and a pointer variable 'i' using asterisk sign. Then we store the value of the address of no in the pointer variable. Then we print the value of the variable, the pointer variable storing address, and the value of no variable again using the pointer variable.  

## Output 

```c++
Value of no variable: 5
Address stored in i variable: 0xbfc601ac
Value of *i variable: 5
```
So in total, there are 2 operators for pointers.  

* Address-of Operator(&): Return the memory address
* Contents-of Operator(*): Returns the value of the variable located at that address. 
