# DYNAMIC MEMORY ALLOCATION  

In C/C++ program, memory is divided into two parts:  

1. The stack: Local variable take the memory from stack.  
2. The heap: Unused memory that can be used while the execution of the program to dynamically allocate the memory.  

Sometimes while programming we do not know in advance how much memory is required for a variable to store data and the size of required memory is determined while executing the program.  
For such cases, we can allocate the memory at the run time using the **new** operator which will return the address of allocated memory.  

# Syntax  

```c++
new int;
```
This allocates the memory size necessary for storing the integer on the heap and returns its address.  

The allocated address can be stored in the pointer, which can be further used to access the variable.  

## Example 

```c++
int *p = new int;
*p = 2;
```
Here we have dynamically allocated variable with data type integer and its value is 2. Make sure that the pointer variable is allocated in the stack memory and holds the heap's allocated address as its value.  

On heap memory allocation it is necessary to handle the variable manually and use the delete operator when it is no longer in use.  

```c++
delete pointer;
```
This syntax deletes the memory pointed to by the pointer.  

# Example

```c++
int *p = new int; // request for memory
*p = 5; // store the value

cout << *p << endl; // use the value

delete p; // frees the memory
```
If we do not delete the memory that is not in use then it will result in memory leak as memory will be allocated until the program shuts down.  

The delete operator frees the pointer will the memory allocation of the variable but does not delete the pointer itself. Therefore these free pointers are stored on the stack and are called **Dangling Pointers**. 

# Example  

```c++
int *p = new int; // request for memory
*p = 10; // store the value

delete p; // frees the memory
// now p is dangling pointer

p = new int; // reuse for new address
```
The Dynamic Memory can also be used fow arrays as following:

```c++
int *p = NULL; // Pointer initialized to null
p = new int[20]; // Request for memory
delete [] p; // Delete array pointed to by p
```
### Explanation of code:  

In the above code, the pointer is initialized with NULL. The NULL pointer is the pointer with constant zero that is referred to in several libraries, include iostream. In case you do not have the exact address to be assigned to pointer than it is always the good practice to assign NULL to the pointer while declaration.  
The brackets in the above example with the delete operator are due to the array pointer. 

Dynamic memory allocation is very useful when the program is based on the input.
