# Function  

The function can be defined as a group of statements in the program performing a certain task. In C/C++ there is one default function **main()** in the program but along with these other functions can also be used to make the program easy.  

Following are the advantages of using the functions:

* Number of error is reduced as it is possible to test the individual function of the function.  
* For the program that requires input while execution, we can use the same function for different inputs.
* When there is an error in a certain block of code it becomes easy to make changes in the function rather than the entire program.
* When a certain block of code is to be performed again and again in the program we can reuse function rather than writing the same code again and again.  

Note that every C/C++ program will have one function- main() function.

The working of function is divided into 3 parts:

1. Function Declaration
2. Function Definition 
3. Function Calling   

## 1. Function Declaration:  

The function declaration tells the compiler the name of the function and the return type of the function. The actual block of code of the function can be defined separately.  
Remember that the function is always declared before calling it to execute the block of code. 

## Syntax  

```c++
return_type function_name( parameter list );
```

In the above syntax of function declaration, let us understand the different arguments:  

1. return_type: Here the return type of the function is mentioned. Many functions returns the value with different data type hence that data type is the return type of that function. Many functions do not return the value at all. In such cases, the return type of the function is **void**.  

2. function_name: Here the name of the function is mentioned. The name of the function can be anything but it is always a better convention to name the function according to the task executed by the function.  

3. parameter list: When the function is called for the execution, the value is passed to the parameter. The value is called the actual parameter or actual argument. Here the parameter list includes the total number of parameters, order of all the parameters, and the data type of the parameter.  

## Example  

```c++
int max(int num1, int num2);
```
### Explanation of code

In the above code, the return_type of the function is "int" which means the function will return the int value when it is executed. The name of the function is "max" and 2 values are passed as the parameter while executing the function. The data type of the value passed is "int".

In a function declaration, the name of the parameter is not important. Therefore only the data type of parameter is also valid. For Example:

```c++
int max(int, int);
```
Remember that the function is always declared before calling it to execute the block of code. 

## 2. Function Definition  

Function Definition is the part where we define the task that the function will perform when it is invoked.  
It has similar syntax like function declaration but in addition, have the body of the function.   

## Syntax  

```c++
return_type function_name( parameter list ) {
   body of the function
}
```
Here the return_type, function_name, and parameter list have the same meaning as the function declaration. The body of the function defines the code of block we want the function to perform when the function is called.   

## Example  

```c++
int max(int num1, int num2) {

   int result;
 
   if (num1 > num2)
      result = num1;
   else
      result = num2;
 
   return result; 
}
```
### Explanation of code

In the above code, the return_type of the function is "int". The name of the function is "max" and the parameters are "num1" and "num2" with data type "int". The body of the function is the block of code which checks the maximum number out of num1 and num2. And then at last return the maximum number. 

## 3. Function calling 

After function definition, we need to call the function to execute the task.  
When the function is called the flow of control jumps to the function definition, execute a certain task, and when the return statement is executed or the end of the bracket is reached the flow of control again jumps to the destination of function calling to execute rest of the program.  

To call the function we just need to pass the parameter with the function name and if the function returns value than also the variable to store that value.  

## Example  
```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
 
// function declaration
int max(int num1, int num2);
 
int main () {
 
   int a = 10;
   int b = 20;
   int ret;
 
   // calling a function 
   ret = max(a, b);
   cout << "Max value is: " << ret << endl;
 
   return 0;
}
 
// function definition  
int max(int num1, int num2) {
   
   int result;
 
   if (num1 > num2)
      result = num1;
   else
      result = num2;
 
   return result; 
}
```

## Explanation of code   

In the above code, we find the maximum number between two numbers. First, we declare the function and call it in the main() function. The function returns the maximum value therefore the value is to be stored in the "ret" variable. At last, the function definition is defined with the code used to find the maximum number.  

## Output  

```c++
Max value is: 20
```

