# Pass by Reference With Pointers  

As we studied that we need to pass the value to parameters while function calling. There are two methods to pass the function:

1. By value: The argument's actual value is copied into the function's formal parameter. Without having any effect on the argument, we can change the parameter within the function.  

2. By reference: The argument's reference is copied into the function's formal parameter. The reference is used to access the actual argument in the call. So any change made to parameter affects the argument.   

By Default, C/C++ uses call **by value** to pass argument. Due to the copy of the argument is passed to the function, the original argument is not passed by the function. 

## Example  

```c++
void Func(int x) {
  x = 10;
}

int main() {
  int var = 20;
  Func(var);
  cout << var;
}
```
Here the value of "var" is passed as an argument to a parameter with a pass by value and therefore the actual value of the variable is copied.  

## Output  

```c++
20
```

Pass by reference copy the argument's address into the formal parameter. The address is used to access the actual argument inside the function. So any change made to the parameter affects the argument.  
In pass by reference argument, the **pointers** are passed to the function.  

## Example  

```c++
void Func(int *x) {
  *x = 10;
}

int main() {
  int var = 20;
  Func(&var);
  cout << var;
}
```
Here the address is passed to the argument and the value at that address is replaced by the function. Therefore the value of the variable is changed after the function call. 

## Output 

```c++
10 
```
In general, pass by value is more **faster and effective** than pass by reference. Pass by reference is recommended when the function needs modification or when the data type is to be passed which uses a lot of memory. 
