# Recursion   

In C/C++, recursion function is the function that calls itself. Now when the function keeps calling itself the function turns into the infinite loop or we can say never-ending loop.  
Therefore there are two main factors of recursion function as follow:

1. Every time the function call itself, the function should be **approaching more towards the solution**.  
2. To avoid recursion to fall under an infinite loop we need to define the **Termination condition**. The termination condition is also called **Exit Condition** or **Base Condition** 

To understand the recursion function let us take an example of factorial of a number.  
The factorial refers to the product of the positive integer less than or equal to a specific non-negative integer. Factorial of a is denoted by **a!**.  

## Example

```c++
3! = 3*2*1 = 6
```
Recursion is the problem-solving method for the problem where the solution depends on the solutions of smaller instances of the same problem.  

## Example 

```c++
int factorial(int n) {
  if (n==1) {
    return 1;
  }
  else {
    return n * factorial(n-1);
  }
}
```  

### Explanation of code  

Here in the above code, the, **if** condition is the termination condition as the factorial of '1', is '1'. Therefore when the factorial function is called for '1' it will terminate the function loop. The **else** condition is used to call the function recursively for factorial of a number and approach towards the solution.  

Now let us see how we can execute the entire factorial program.  

## Example  

```c++
int factorial(int n) {
  if (n==1) {
    return 1;
  }
  else {
    return n * factorial(n-1);
  }
}
int main() {
  cout << factorial(4);
}
```
## Output  

```c++
24
```

